# War
Purpose: 

My project is an easier version of the game Egyptian War. The rules are the same except the slapping aspect of the game is removed. Instead, players only gain cards when the other player is unable to place down a royal card in the number of tries they have. To make the game quicker, players also don’t merge the cards they win back into the stack of their own cards. Instead, their won cards are placed on the side and compared at the end. The player with the most cards won wins. 

Functionality:

To begin with, a deck of cards is created and shuffled through the cards class. The game starts with the human and computer alternating placing cards down cards. After each player placing down a card, it is checked to see if that card is a royal. This is done through printCard() which made my program more efficient because if the card was royal, it would need to be marked as royal and printed differently which could be checked together.  If it is royal, the other player places down cards while the number of chances they have to place down a royal is more than 0. If a consecutive royal is placed down, a boolean “hasWon” is marked true which allowed me to be able to “switch turns” by only doing that when a royal was placed down. The boolean “isHuman” allowed me to keep track of whose turn it was while playing royals. After the royals are played out and a player plays too many nonroyals, it is checked who won the cards in the center pile. This goes on until the deck runs out of cards. The deck count is checked after every time each player attempts to pick a card. When the deck runs out, the game loop is broken and the amount of cards each player has won is compared. The result is then printed out.

Aha moments:

When the center pile cards are added to the player who had won the cards, it had to be placed outside of the royals while loop. If it was placed inside, cards would be added to a player’s won count every time a royal was placed down and the loop reset. However, I had only set the restriction to if (isHuman) then the cards would be added to the comp count because logically they would have won due to the previous situation with the royal cards. This was problematic when nonroyal cards were placed because then they were added immediately to a player’s won count. I fixed this by adding the hasWon boolean, which flagged false only in the royals loop, meaning no cards would be added unless it had gone through the royals loop first. 

Mentioned briefly before, I had trouble getting to my solution with how I would “switch turns” while the players continuously played royals. Before I made use of the “hasWon” boolean, I found that the wrong player would win the cards accumulated while trying to play a royal. If the computer had placed down nonroyal cards and ran out of choices, my program printed that the computer then went on to win the center pile. This was because I would call isHuman = !isHuman after the chances loop was exited. It worked as it should when the other player would place down a royal, but when the chances ran out that line of code would mark the boolean opposite one last time, which then messed up assigning who won the cards. I fixed this by making use of the “hasWon” boolean again. The program would only “switch turns” if the “hasWon” boolean was true. “hasWon” would be marked true if a royal was placed inside the chance loop, so when it exited and came to the switching turns line it would still run. Since a royal wouldn’t be played if a player had run out of chances, the “hasWon” boolean would be false, allowing me to skip over the switching turns line of code. 

At the end of my code, I was having trouble figuring out how to actually make the loop stop. I originally had it so that somewhere in the loop it would be marked that someone had won. I realized this wouldn’t work at the end because I check to see who won after that loop is exited. Due to this, I decided to exit the loop when the deck of cards ran out. To make things simple before a random card is drawn in the cards.java file it is checked if the arraylist cardslist is empty or not using isEmpty(). If it is empty, then instead of picking a number the card is shown as being equal to 0. In WarDriver.java after every time a card is picked it is checked if the value of the card equals 0. However, sometimes it’s being checked inside of the chances loop which is inside the royals loop. To be sure it exits the game immediately after the deck runs out, I labeled the game loop as gameLoop which allowed me to specifically break out of the gameLoop by saying “break gameLoop”. 
